This 10-second video that is currently playing on top of my face was sold last week for 6.6 million dollars on the Ethereum blockchain. Maybe you think it's crazy, maybe you think it's stupid, but anyways, we need to understand it. Hello, I'm Nicolas, and last week I made a video about Bitcoin crypto blockchain and how it all relates to developers. Now I asked you on that video to tell me if you would like me to make more Bitcoin crypto blockchain related videos. You said yes, so I decided I'm going to make a series of videos explaining this whole crypto Bitcoin smart contract ecosystem for developers, where we talk about innovation, we'll talk about price, investment, none of that, only technology and how we can use it. Now the point of this series is that by the end of it, you will be able to understand how come people are selling videos on the blockchain. There is like a new art market going on on crypto, and for example, you will understand what is the difference between PancakeSwap and SushiSwap, or why some decentralized exchanges are moving from Ethereum to the Binance chain. If you don't understand any of the words I just said, then you are the perfect target for this series because I am going to explain all that until you understand those crazy terms by the end of this series. And today we're going to start with the concept number one and the most important, and that is blockchain. Blockchain is what is making Bitcoin, Ethereum, Cardano, Polkadot, Cosmos, Dogecoin run. That is blockchain, and we have to understand it so we can move on to more advanced concepts. So let's get started by trying to explain blockchain. Now I've seen many people trying to explain blockchain and everybody's doing a great job, but I want to try to explain it in easy terms. So here we go. A blockchain is a chain of blocks. That's it. Thank you so much for watching this video. No, I'm just kidding. A blockchain is a chain of blocks. That is correct. But what does that mean? In developer terms, let's change the word blockchain and replace it with database. So a database, we know what that is, but a blockchain is a very, very sexy, cool database. Why sexy? Why is it cool? First of all, it's append only. Append means add. This database, you can only add things to it. You cannot delete things from it. You cannot edit things from them. You can only add things to this database, and there is already people exploring the consequences of having a database that you cannot edit or delete. You can only add. For example, you can make a database of university certificates. So every time you go to university and you graduate, your university will put your diploma on the blockchain. That means that nobody can change it and it will always be there. Or governments can use blockchain to store driver licenses or subsidy information. Or you can use blockchain to store your chance contract so nobody can edit or delete it. It will always be there. Also, in the case of most cryptocurrencies, a blockchain can be decentralized. Decentralized means that I, for example, I'm not in control of the whole database. It means that we all have a copy of the same database. So for example, if I want to lie and I want to say, actually, I have 20 million Bitcoin, I wouldn't be believed by everybody because everybody has a copy of the same database. So it's a distributed database as well. And this is why it will be very hard to, for example, censor or kill a whole cryptocurrency because there are so many people running Bitcoin nodes. We all have the same copy of the database. We would all have to turn off our computers and all the nodes that we are running and then Bitcoin will die. But that will never happen because we are not going to do that at the same time. This is why it makes the cryptocurrencies very, very powerful against censorship from government. So as you can see, it's a very, very cool database. Now let's talk about the block part of blockchains. Blocks are how we add data to a blockchain. OK, so instead of just writing data down in a row of a database, we create a block. In the case of Bitcoin, this block is created every 10 minutes or so. Now a block has many things inside of it, but the most important things are the hash of the block, the previous hash and the data. Let's start with the easier one, the data. Now, like I said on the beginning, you can create a blockchain of whatever you want, of marriage certificates, driver licenses, university diplomas, whatever. On the data part of the block is where you're going to put those things. In the case of Bitcoin, on the data part of the Bitcoin blocks is just a bunch of transactions. Who has what money? Somebody sends something to somebody. Somebody sends something to somebody else. That's it. That's what's inside of the data part of a Bitcoin block. Now let's talk about hash. Hash is a mathematical function that takes one input and gives you an output. But it's first of all one way function and is deterministic. What does that mean? Deterministic means that you have an input, for example, I love you, and the output of I love you will always be the same. So I love you, as you can see on the screen, has the same output always. Now if I change something, just a little bit of this I love you, and I add an exclamation mark, for example, the output of the hash function will change drastically. And that is deterministic. That's step one. Step two is one way only. One way only means if I take I love you, I will get an output. But with this output, I cannot get I love you back. I can't. It's a one way function. It's like, for example, making mango juice. If you have a mango, you put it in the blender and you mix it. What do you do? You get mango juice. But with mango juice, you cannot make a mango fruit. With a mango fruit, you can make mango juice. So making mango juice is just like hashing stuff because it's a one way function. All right. Now, why is this important? This is important because that's how blocks are connected on the blockchain, and that's what makes a chain of blocks. So let's pretend that I am a block and I want to be added into the Bitcoin blockchain. What do I have to do? First of all, I need to collect data, Bitcoin transactions, and that is on the data. OK, that is on my data here on my pocket. Boom. Now, what do I need next? I need the hash of the previous block. So I will get the hash of the previous block and I put that on my pocket. Now what I do is I hash the data plus the hash of the previous block. I hash these two and I have my own hash. That's basically how I can join a blockchain. OK, again, let's repeat. I have my data, whatever data I want to put into the blockchain, and I have the hash of the previous block. I take these two, I combine them and I make my hash. So now I can join the blockchain saying that I am connected to the previous block because he gave me his previous hash and now I have my own hash. And if you want to join our blockchain, then what you need to do is you need to take my hash and you need to hash it with your data. So as you can see, everybody is hashing the previous hash. This is how we are connecting each other. That means that also if, for example, my blockchain has 10 million blocks and on the block number one, somebody changes one zero instead of zero, they put one or whatever is the change they do. That means that all our hashes are going to change because that means that hashing has a very different output, even if you modify the input just a little bit. OK, and this is, again, how we are all connected together and how we know nobody has modified our blockchain. Now, please don't worry, because in the next video that I'm preparing, we're going to actually see how a hash can happen, how a blockchain can be formed, because it's very easy to do in Python, JavaScript or whatever. And also on the next video, we're going to understand how the Bitcoin blockchain in this case protects itself, because not everybody should be able to add a block. There has to be some condition to add a block. You should do something to deserve the fact that you can add a block into the blockchain. So that's what's going to be on the next video. We're going to understand what is proof of work, what is mining, why people buy very expensive equipment to mine Bitcoin. So we're going to understand all that on the next video. And trust me, if the concept of hashes don't really click right now, don't worry, it's going to click on the next one, I promise you. That's it for this video. Let me know what you think on the comments. Again, like I said, this will be a series only if you want it to be a series. So I need your support, your likes, your comments, your subscription, because that keeps me alive making more content like this. Let me know what specific concept you would like to learn on the comments. And if you like what I'm doing, don't forget to be happy. Don't forget your Kimchi. Thank you. I love you. See you on the next one. Stay safe. Bye bye.